Congratulations.
You have finished the course.
I hope you learn the valuable stuff and will become a better web developer.
We covered a number of things here, but there's always more.
If you are into security, try analyzing the attack methods and practicing them on your own locally
hosted sites to better understand how it works and write better, more secure code in the future.
For example, to better understand how cross-site scripting attack can be carried out.
See the cross-site scripting attacks.
Smoke dust on the email, purify your site.
That's quite a long list.
And it may be an eye opener for you.
Also, it would be a good idea to subscribe to websites, security discussion groups and forums to get
used to the topic and be up to date.
You could also try to monitor everything on your site and this way try to discover and drug any anomalies.
This way you will be able to quickly react if anything starts to go wrong.
For example, if you detect a traffic peak, numerous unexpected access trains for a certain resource
and increase in locked out users or a high volume of server errors like 404403 and hopefully not 500th.
All these could indicate that someone is trying to abuse your site, and the quicker you react, the
better.
At the beginning, I told you you will not need any special tool to follow this course.
And that was, of course, true.
Now, as we discussed a lot of stuff, let me show you a couple of free tools which might help you in
securing your sites.
The first one would be Mozilla Observatory, a service run by Mozilla, which inspects a couple of security
settings of your site.
Mainly the HTP header is related to security, like content security policy or referrer policy.
Use the service to see where you can make improvements in your configuration and to better understand
your content security policy.
Another easy and quick scanning tool is scary.
So to check, enter your sites address and you will get a report indicating if your site runs any malware,
if it is on the blacklist, involved in spam, etc. It's useful if you suspect something might be wrong
with your site or you recently discovered some security hole or had a vulnerable third party component.
Also at the bottom, you will get heartening improvement.
DBS, for example, missing security related HTP headers or BHP configuration recommendations.
Then there are tools you need to Donald or installed to run them.
Ask you a map is the command line tool written in Python, which can among all analyze the target URL
for obscure injection of vulnerabilities.
To use askew a map, you simply need to download it and run the school map dot by file with a python
command.
Mark For example, Python comes preinstalled so you don't need to actually install anything.
I love that the tool is powerful and the amount of options is quite overwhelming.
But for a quick start, just type the commons suggested in the documentation and provide a URL with
some param because it will not scan the whole site for you.
It will only analyze a single URL with get or post the data.
So you need to prepare specific URLs which you want to test after you hit enter.
The tool will most probably ask you to decide on a couple of things and then give you the final result,
which hopefully will be that all tested parameters do not appear to be injectable.
Here.
We tested a get barometer, but is of course possible to use other HDTV methods like post and still
send some data.
You can also provide your own cookies, play with the referrer, user, agent, etc..
The documentation covers all the options.
If you feel adventurous, try installing Z Attack Proxy, A software developed by our foundation.
It's a penetration test tool which you can use to scan your website to see how secure or how vulnerable
it is.
It's a quite complex application, but it of course has a quickstart route.
After opening it here, I use a cross-platform package on Mac.
Click the automated scan button in the main workspace window.
Before we continue, not in the warnings and only around this tool against your own sites and ideally
it first on the copy not on a life site because as the documentation says, the tool can potentially
cause actual damage unless you run it in safe mode.
And we don't want any damage.
So let's run it on the WordPress install on my localhost and use the traditional spider.
The ADA spider will be better for apps, which uses Ajax a lot, but it's more time consuming.
So let's keep it for now.
Hit the attack button and the test starts.
The tool will first crawl the site to find as much valid URLs as it can and then will analyze them all.
So it will take a couple of minutes to finish.
After the scan is completed.
In the bottom part, you will see the results sorted from highest to lowest priority.
In this case, it found a couple of medium priority issues.
For example, pages with mixed content because I included the degree library via HTP in the theme.
It also highlighted that the extreme options out there is not set.
These are medium priority.
It would be good to fix them because they indeed pose some risk.
There are also a few low priority issues like cross domain JavaScript inclusion x powered by Heather.
Or X content type option header missing which could potentially allow content sniffing in some browsers
here.
Also fix as much as you can.
This was, of course, just a brief introduction and an overview of a simple scan, but there's a lot
of advanced functions there.
However, it's still very usable for simple automated scans as the one we just did.
Because it's easy to miss something in configuration or during development and even such automated scan
will help you deliver better safer code.
Finally, if you only can afford it, it's always a good idea to hire a professional pen tester with
lots of experience.
They will try everything to break your sight.
Of course, in a secure environment and should give you a full audit result with recommendations, what
to fix and how.
If you treat your science security seriously, it's a money well spent.
Even if the punters a result will find nothing, that will mean you did a great job.
So thanks again for watching the course.
Best wishes for your career and stay safe.
If you liked learning with me and would like to improve other web development related skills, I encourage
you to check my other course website speed optimisation, frontend and WordPress.